[Docs]: How to use Git flow for different environments (#775)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-use-git-flow-for-different-environments.md

# How to use Git flow for different environments

In this guide, you’ll learn how to create different environments for your App using the Git connection in Appsmith.

## Environments
If you have an App connected to Git in Appsmith, you can create separate branches to work on it independently. The problem arises when you are working on the same database. Any alteration to the database can cause multiple failures on various branches. So, it's better to have a different environment with a test database for developing an application that won't affect the production database. But, what are Environments?
Environments are container entities within a space that allows you to create and maintain multiple versions of your App and make changes to them in isolation. A separate environment can be an app with a test database in another workspace or instance.

> 

Reviewer: We do not support GSheet, Twilio, API or any SAAS-type datasource. I guess we should mention this beforehand to reduce the Aforce queries.

Author: Added an info tag at the bottom.

Reviewer 2: Let's move the callout right at the top here so users know first hand which datasources it works on

> # How to use Git flow for different environments

Reviewer 3: Just as a heads-up, this new title might break the convention of the other How-To guide pages -- most (except for a small handful?) use the "How To ..." format.

I'm not sure whether we're intending to move away from that, but I figured I'd mention it just in case.

For the time being, I used a compromise of "How To Use Git To Create Different Environments" just to keep the review moving; I'm happy with either way, just let me know

> # How to use Git flow for different environments

Reviewer 2: Yeah i think its ok we should remove the 'How to' for the newer ones we are adding, because the section is already titled How to Guide. Again in the subpages, it looks odd to mention it over an over again

In this guide, you’ll learn how to create different environments for your App using the Git connection in Appsmith.

## Environments

> If you have an App connected to Git in Appsmith, you can create separate branches to work on it independently. The problem arises when you are working on the same database. Any alteration to the database can cause multiple failures on various branches. So, it's better to have a different environment with a test database for developing an application that won't affect the production database. But, what are Environments?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environments are container entities within a space that allows you to create and maintain multiple versions of your applications and make changes to them in isolation. 

You may need to create and maintain separate environments for your production apps to rigorously test them and remove any errors before the changes are deployed and made available to the users.  This also helps prevent any accidental changes made to the production database.  

With the Connect to Git feature in Appsmith, you can create a separate environment for the same application with a test/staging database in another workspace.

```

Reviewer 3: Updated, with small adjustments

> Environments are container entities within a space that allows you to create and maintain multiple versions of your applications and make changes to them in isolation.
> 
> You may need to create and maintain separate environments for your production apps to rigorously test them and remove any errors before the changes are deployed and made available to the users. This also helps _prevent making any accidental changes to production databases._
> 
> With the Connect to Git feature in Appsmith, you can _create separate environments for each version of your app, each with different databases._

> Environments are container entities within a space that allows you to create and maintain multiple versions of your App and make changes to them in isolation. A separate environment can be an app with a test database in another workspace or instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The multiple environments feature is still under development, but till then, you can use Version control with Git in Appsmith to create different environments by following these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create different environments following the steps below:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Let's directly do the steps instead of listing them here

1. Establishing Git connection
2. Import your App
3. Commit and push
4. Pull the changes

> ### Establish a Git connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Establish a Git connection
```

To get started, connect your app to a git repository. You can follow the steps from [Connecting to repository](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/connecting-to-git-repository) to complete the setup.
Once the setup is complete, commit and push the initial commit to your Git repository from the Appsmith.

> ### Import Application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Import Application
```

Go to the workspace or the instance where you want to add the development environment. Import the application from the Git repository using [Import from Git](/advanced-concepts/version-control-with-git/import-from-repository). As Appsmith doesn't store the credentials of your database, the datasource window appears when the import is complete. In this window, enter the credentials for your development data which is different from the production environment. Test and save the connection.

> ### Commit and push

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Commit and push
```

Once the development database is connected, open the app. You’ll be prompted to make an initial push to the Git repository from the app.
The development environment for your app is now complete. To test it out, make some changes in the app. For example, add a select widget and bind it to your development data. Once you’ve made the changes, commit and push it to your Git repository.

> ### Pull the changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 4. Pull the changes
```

You’ve made changes in your development environment, but they're not in the production app yet. To sync the changes, go back to the production app and pull the latest changes from the Git repository. You’ll see that a select widget will appear on the canvas bonded with the production database when the pull from the repository is complete.

:::info

> This method does not support GSheet, Twilio, API or any SAAS-type datasource. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method does not support APIs, Google Sheets, Twilio,  or any authenticated API datasources. 
```

move this callout to the top
